everyone laszlo Montgomery again he as
usual no music intro fanfare or anything
don't send me money or buy my book I'm
just here once again to bring you
another nugget from the past 5,000 or so
years of Chinese history today we look
at Guan Yu the history of in the myths
behind this legend of Chinese history
and culture I was with my homies from
ningbo last week we had an appointment
downtown so I took them to lunch in the
old Chinatown we walked around after a
nice dim sum at ocean seafood on
Broadway this is an LA and I bought a
iguana statue with some gift shop for
eight bucks and when the owner wasn't
looking I snapped a photo with my phone
of the altar inside his shop which of
course prominently features Guan Yu you
could see this on my China history
podcast website as the featured photos
that went along with this episode this
is about is typical a shrine to Guan Yu
as you can find and you can't speak of
Guan Yu without speaking also of Leo Bay
and John Fay this is the history part
you seek why you was very much real he
was a historical figure who later became
a god so we'll look at the historical
aspect of Guan Yu and then we'll look at
all the myths and powers contained in
his being when he went from being Guan
Yu to Guan gong and quang deep let's
first look at the historical why you and
to do that we have to jump back eighteen
hundred and fifty years to 162 ad these
are the closing years the eastern Han
Dynasty the Western Han running from 206
bc 28 ad followed by Wang mom's brief
Ching dynasty from nine to 23 8d and
then the Han is restored but the capital
is moved to the east to the city of law
young and as you no doubt recall from
the previous episodes on the eastern Han
and the Three Kingdoms the end came in
228-d in China crumbles like it often
did in between dynasties and after a
period of consolidation China is later
divided up into the
kingdoms of Xu Wei and wool in this
period of course immortalized in laoang
Jones late 14th century book romance of
the three kingdoms Sango yea ye this
period in China runs 60 years from 222
to 80 AD and then semi yen unified China
and ushered in the Western Jean dynasty
and 265 a dynasty that was not faded to
last long so the historical Guan Yu he
lived approximately from 160 to 22 28 d
this means he dies right at the end of
the eastern hot but let's not get too
far ahead now let's set the scene here
and I'm going to review some of the
events of CHP 20 and 22 one of the
things that characterized the eastern
Han Dynasty especially in the waning
decades was the domination of the
imperial court and there by the
government by the eunuchs they ran
everything and were omnipotent in China
everything from the top down felt the
effects of their greed and perfidy and
to show heaven was totally not happy
with things going on in the imperial
court this was also a time of more
natural disasters than usual that was
usually a dead giveaway so times were
tough the common law by Shing were
suffering and the government wasn't
doing their job and not earning that
mandate of heaven when the government's
laying down on the job that's when
people get desperate and take desperate
measures to ensure their survival and
one of these things that people turn to
were cults and all kinds of these fringe
beliefs where they sought solace and in
184 ad sure enough the Yellow Turban
rebellion the Hawaiian changer lon picks
up steam and the Emperor is forced to
take action as that Imperial
government's very survival was in danger
and if the Emperor fell so went the
eunuchs so like the foreign power is
almost 17 centuries later they had a
vested interest and propping up the
Emperor and maintaining the status quo
the army was split
up with one faction led by the eunuchs
controlling half the army and the other
half being controlled by the
professional military men and of course
they turned on each other at once and
the eunuchs lost out they were defeated
and in 189 the Emperor dies without an
heir and the most powerful guy left
standing at the time was none other than
tal tal tal tal was by the final years
of the Eastern Han the most powerful and
successful warlord of his day he had the
Emperor in his back pocket salto rose to
power in his handling of the yellow
turbans well pretty much from the time
of the suppression of the Yellow Turban
rebellion until the eastern Han took its
last breath it was a period of legendary
battles alliances broken alliances and
in the end the eastern Han fell and then
China gets divided up into ultimately
three states or kingdoms and again that
is the state of shoe in the West way in
the north and woo in the south and east
these states are called also called Shu
Han Holloway swim wool so that's all the
backdrop to the historical life of Guan
Yu like the topic of last week's podcast
boy oh boy why you also came from the
province of Shaanxi he came from the
southwest of the province from the
present-day city of hyun joong this is
perhaps a three-hour car ride from the
historic city of Xian why you had a
normal classical upbringing having read
all the great works of the day that
allowed one to call himself literate as
the legend goes there was a local despot
named Lucien who guai you had a hand and
killing and he had to flee his hometown
and he heads north east and winds up in
present-day Jojo which is just southwest
of Beijing and it's here where he meets
the man who will change his life here in
Georgia he meets kyo bake who one day
will head the western state of shoe
shuhang leo bay was in the vicinity
recruiting men to fight his army this is
around 1 98 d the yellow turbans are
causing all kinds of destruction and
whatnot in China so Leo Bay is gathering
an army and it's under these conditions
that these three men yo bait guai you
and the other one zhang FEI joined
together and swear a sacred oath zhang
FEI was a butcher in the city of George
oh now this swearing of this sacred oath
one of the milestone events in Chinese
history most likely it never happened
except in law qin qiong's book romance
of the three kingdoms it happened in a
peach tree orchard and has become known
as the Tal us on GAE or oath of the
peach garden this whole idea of
like-minded men swearing sacred oaths to
become brothers at em to be there no
matter what for the other its sorta
grows out of this and if you recall from
chp episode 72 covering the Hong Kong
triads this idea of secret oats and
whatnot it all came from the original
three you'll pay why you John Fay and
these three formed a great fighting
force why you and John Fay became the
subservient and loyal younger brother so
to speak of leo baeck the exploits of
their battles and how they were so
effective as generals make up some of
the best stories from ancient China John
Fahey is portrayed as the epitome of the
just an honest man who was both bold and
powerful fighting for justice at all
costs guai you he stood for loyalty and
integrity of the highest order and this
is one of the reasons why guayo is so
sacred to the underworld games one thing
about Guan Yu that's instantly
recognizable and distinguishes him from
the next heroic legend from Chinese
history is his red face he's that guy
with the red face and that lustrous long
beard and so these three sworn brothers
again
an army just like they said they would
they go out and fight the yellow turbans
and they are successful and playing
their role and as we know the Yellow
Turban rebellion was ultimately put down
so the obey he gets appointed as a
governor of a county and why you in
chunghae they rise with him they serve a
series of more powerful military men
sooner or later everybody's nemesis
becomes salto he had the most powerful
army and was able to manipulate affairs
at at the center of power the forces of
talto end up defeating Leo Bay's army at
the battle of Shahi guao is captured in
the battle by house house forces and he
is treated well and there begins an
interesting relationship or why you is
both captive and a lieutenant serving in
the Army for telltale he fights battles
for todd's how against you and Shaw it's
hotel's main rival but when he gets his
chance ever loyal to Leo babe why you
heads back to join his other two blood
brothers and from that point on it was
Leo Bay's forces and allies fighting
against its hotel and then came the
grand alliance with the warlord and the
power of the south and the southeast of
China Sun tren and from this alliance
you have the epic and exciting battle of
red cliffs where it's Hal toe is
defeated by these allies and we discuss
this battle in CHP episode 22 qui you
was a great military strategist and no
one can doubt his effectiveness but his
military exploits weren't of the
magnitude that earned him the kind of
accolades as you say leasher mean or
Julia and Chang or even Judah the obey a
chuckle Young on his side as his master
strategist it was this act of loyalty by
Guan Yu this complete exhibition of what
integrity means when he went when Guan
Yu learns that Leo Bay is still alive
all the riches and honors that's how
I'll had bestowed on him he left it all
behind and made this harrowing escape
you know it's like a mini Odyssey to
make his way back to Leo base camp so he
embodies the whole idea of what it means
to honor your commitment exhibit your
loyalty and to be a man of honor in 219
obey made himself emperor of his state
of shoe hot this was the kingdom that
was out in the West Indian who had the
northern hallway and in the southern
state of Wu why use importance tilly
obey was still strong but with a guy
like jus Kalia as your how shall we say
is your defense minister it's gonna be
hard to get credit for one's military
exploits but he was still a tough old
guy well not that old I guess only 58
years he still inspired awe and others
in all kinds of amazing feats and
exploits are attributed to Guan Yi one
story and there's so many that are I'm
not going to include in this episode but
this one is you know told and retold
concerns the time while you was in
battle and someone shot a poison arrow
that pierced his arm as the medics
attended to his nasty wound which in
those days I guess pretty much until the
19th century you know surgery tended to
be a rather grisly and horrific affair
and as these medics were working on why
you cutting into his arm and all that
stuff while you was busy playing cards
with his mates and drinking wine and
going on about his business with you
know using only one hand it was it
having someone you know cut into your
arm and mess with your tendons and
muscles and blood vessels was this you
know normal everyday thing he remained
fearless to the end and knowing that he
had been called out to a dinner and that
an ambush awaited him he still set out
alone you know daring anybody to do
something and sure enough he was
ambushed captured and beheaded this is
in to 19 to 20 there abouts but this
wasn't before guai you was divinely
assisted in a magnificent defeat of
tell us army at hon chung led by his
able general Yuchi so why are you not
necessarily known as one of the greatest
warriors China produced in 5,000 years
but who nonetheless was always a major
force to be reckoned with and knew how
to handle a gwan doll or a or a halberd
these are these long poles that have
some sort of blade or an ax head
attached to them Guan news image is
always shown with this long sword in his
hand and the red face and the long beard
the red face the long bear to the sword
these three main traits associated with
Guan use image how you can always
distinguish him so why'd you dies
bravely at my Chong in hebei falling to
the forces of his one-time allies
luncheon and according to the romance of
the three kingdoms soon Tran was
arrogantly rebuffed by Guan Yu after
offering his son in marriage to Guan
Yi's daughter so the insult was just too
great for sunshine and ultimately sudden
Tran plots to have why you killed and
that's just what happens and then the
legend picks up with life ends and
according to the legend after he died a
Buddhist master appeared before him and
why you asked for spiritual guidance the
master teaches Guan Yu the Five Precepts
the most basic code of Buddhist ethics
don't kill steal lie get drunk or be a
sexual deviant guai you through learning
all this in more detail than I just gave
reached enlightenment and from this
point on he has a close connection in
Buddhism and from this point forward in
the Chinese speaking world all the way
to the present day in the year of the
dragon 2012 Guan Yu is lionized as the
ultimate example of loyalty and
righteousness but it's not until the
suede dynasty which began in 581 219
years after his death that Guan Yu is
first deified at you trend Hill in
present-day obey that and here he begins
to evolve into the
God that is loved and honored in so many
segments of Chinese society the spirit
of Guan Yu had first been absorbed into
Buddhist beliefs he's made a bodhisattva
and later embraced wholeheartedly by
Taoist believers becoming you know one
of the most important Taoist Guardian
deities and lastly because of gwaay's
association with learning and wisdom
even the Confucian asst venerate him
Guan Yin has many names he's also
referred to commonly as Guan gong or
Lord Guan and upon his deification he
became even more well known as Guan
Zhong Zhi Jun or the shortened version
of Quan deeper Emperor Guan in all the
wild no matter Buddhism Taoism or any
Chinese folk religion who honored Kuan
Yew they all focused on Guan Yu as the
embodiment of honor loyalty integrity
justice courage and strength and besides
these ideals he is also associated with
learning wisdom there are guan d temples
all over china hong kong macau taiwan
and throughout Southeast Asia and the
whole cult of guad you it even made it
big in South Korea and in Japan if you
check my website out for this episode I
snapped a photo of a typical guao altar
inside this gift shop in la's Chinatown
you'll see Guan Yu in the top most most
important central position and I'm sure
many of you have passed a few hundred of
these in your lifetime now let's get
back to his death in 219 ad the road to
deification began with the initial
honors that began to be heaped upon Guan
Yu his own state of shoe posthumously
made him a markless towards the end of
the northern song dynasty he was named a
Duke and later a prince in 1187 during
the southern song and into the reign of
the Mongols in China iguana received
further honors however it was during the
long long reign of the Wadley Emperor of
the Ming Dynasty that in 1614 Guan Yu
was given the title of
saintly Emperor Guan the Great God who
subdues demons up to three worlds and
whose oo spreads far and moves heaven
and then into the Ching dynasty qui you
in 1853 is made a wolf shun which
officially places him on the same level
as no less a sacred cow and Confucius
himself Confucius being the sage or
Xiang of learning when and why you being
the Xiang of war whoa so he's also
called the Shan Confucius Bingley when
Chung and again Guan Yu the Musha and
Guan d and Confucius complimented each
other's roles the Great Sage
representing internal harmony and
quantity representing security of the
frontiers against external threat it was
usually at the local guan d Guan gong
temple wherever in china where the
executioner's sword would be kept until
a judge said that it must be used you
see it came down to the Emperor as far
as who had the power to deify someone by
1725 during the time of the young jung
emperor the systematic control of the
cult of Guan d Emperor Guan came under
the control of the imperial court and
Guan d being you know the folk deity for
loyalty wealth literature protector of
temples patron of actors secret
societies of course war and also a
patron saint for restaurants pawnshops
dealers and curios by controlling all
this you were able to project your power
beyond the capital and into the smallest
hamlet of say far away quaint Joe
province it's ironic that most often gua
you is called the indigenous chinese god
of war he wasn't warlike it all despite
his role in so many key battles leading
up to the start of the Sun washer died
the period of the three kingdoms he was
a great proponent of war for the sake of
peace fighting for the purpose of
defending the people who were helpless
against the onslaught of all these
warlord
he made war for the sake of ending war
not only the underworld gangs honor Guan
Yu but policemen as well if you walk
into I'd say any police station in Hong
Kong you'll see some altar or something
with gua news image or a statue he's the
patron saint of the police just as he is
for the Triads after all loyalty respect
integrity and fearlessness are traits
very much demanded amongst those
criminal elements of society as well as
in the police so why'd you is sacred to
them to in a police station Guan Yu
sword will be in his right hand with the
underworld they show him with the sword
or halberd in his left hand in Hong Kong
Macau Taiwan and everywhere in Southeast
Asia where Chinese congregate Guan Yu is
worshipped as a God of wealth alongside
the Thai shot the other God of wealth
this also goes for in shaanxi province
where guai you came from so that's
iguana the most well-known example of
historical persons who went on to become
God's wine you died almost 1800 years
ago he lived during the time of the
Roman emperors Marcus Aurelius Commodus
septimius severus caracalla you know
that time for all you history Rome fans
and who was deaf fan of that podcast
well its 18th centuries later and why
you lives on since his image and his
spirit are omnipresent throughout many
parts of the Chinese speaking world he
remains immortal to this day and that's
gonna be it for now wow did you hear
levon Helm passed away thursday i'm
still in mourning sorry to see him go it
sure feels like summer here 90-plus
today in claremont in next month i have
to be in nepa albeit for a very short
time finally going to go and visit that
history museum the Ning ba ba gua
designed by architect wang shu winner of
this year's Pritzker Prize
it's the first Chinese citizen to win
this prestigious award this museum is
about 15-20 minutes for my factory so
I'm determined to check it out at last
after passing it about a thousand times
the Hummel do culture being local to the
region and all figures prominently I'm
sure for this the people of Ning bar
always proud to say that their history
7,000 years old which is forty percent
more than the mayor 5,000 years of
Chinese history I'll tell you all about
it when I get back this is laszlo
Montgomery once again signing off
without fanfare or outro music we run a
lean operation here and only give you
what you're here for join us next time
I'm tempted to say next week but I think
those days are over for an indefinite
period of time I already thought about
next week's topic it's gonna be another
timely one take care adios everybody